# Spray-Drying-Project

<p>
Worldwide food supply and consumption have substantially contributed to climate change and environmental crisis. Therefore, a change in consumption habits to one that is more environmentally friendly is required. Also, due to growing health awareness, consumers' preferences for food have changed over the past decades. Consumers are much particular in food products that provide additional health benefits. This entails reducing current dairy consumption levels in favor of plant-based substitutes, which can be used as an alternative remedy. Plant-based foods are generally preferred because they are healthy and environmentally friendly. 
Process optimization is also an essential activity for many industries in the world today. In the food processing industry, optimization plays a major role in planning and production so as to increase yield while cutting down on industrial waste and cost. Dehydration as a food preservation technique is used to reduce moisture content in food products which leads to the reduction in microbial activities. One of the methods of dehydration is spray drying; this drying method converts feed from a fluid state to a dried particulate form by spraying the feed into a hot drying chamber. It is a drying operation with uninterrupted particle processing that can result in a solution, suspension, dispersion, or emulsion. The spraying drying methodology depends on several input factors such as feed flow rate, inlet air temperature, etc. However, making a forecast into the output parameters such as product yield, and moisture content is needed to ensure that spray drying processes is optimized. In this study, the response surface   and machine learning regression models (Decision Tree and Random Forest) were developed to forecast the effect of input parameters on coconut and tiger nut milk (CTM) using spray drying technique. The experimental setup needed for this work was established based on the central composite design (CCD). This generated a dataset of 20 instances for spray drying input parameters; intake temperature (160-180°C), feed flowrate (350-450 ml/h), and maltodextrin concentration (5.5-10%). The moisture content and the yield of the composite milk powder were found to be substantially affected (p < 0.05) with maltodextrin ratio and drying inlet air temperature as the most important factors. The increase and decrease in powder yield and moisture content were caused by changes in inlet air temperature and maltodextrin concentration, respectively. Regarding the various response adjustments, the ideal settings were a 180°C inlet temperature, a 10% maltodextrin concentration, and a 4500 mL/L feed flowrate predicted to give 4.2% moisture content, 17.02 seconds wettability and 50.1% powder yields. The Decision Tree (DT) and Random Forest (RF) regression models obtained an overall correlation coefficient (R2) for 84.84, and 94.00 respectively. The research and findings show the benefit of using a well-trained machine learning algorithm (Decision tree) to capture the nonlinear behavior of the system and forecast all four outputs at once. In comparison to non-linear models like the response surface methodology (RSM), this study demonstrates that the use of machine learning (Decision tree) models can more accurately predict physical parameters (such as moisture content, yield, wettability time, and color change) while also providing an advantage in estimating process time and thereby reducing operational costs. Finally, the decision tree regression model is deployed onto a web application to offer users a user an online platform to make calculations for spray drying output parameters given the input parameter values.
</p>
